README.md, before:

# Competitive Coding

## C++ Standard Template Library

In ***Week 1***,  learnt about various data structures in the C++ Standard Template Library and the methods and functions associated with them.  

- Vectors and Strings
- Stack, Deque, Queue and Priority Queue
- Pair, map, set, multimaps
- Operators (bitwise etc.) in C++

As practice for this module, I solved the **Introductory Problems** on [CSES](https://cses.fi/problemset/).

## Sorting and Searching

During ***Week 2***,learnt about various techniques for sorting a data structures and searching for values inside them. Learnt applications of binary search coupled with sorting to solve problems tpyically involving large data sets in optimal time complexity.

As practice for this module, I solved problems from **Sorting and Searching** section on [CSES](https://cses.fi/problemset/) and Codeforces problems.

## Graph Representations and Algorithms

Challenging and fun module for ***Week 3***.  Learnt about  

- **Graph Terminology** - Nodes, Edges, Weights, Trees, Simple Graphs, Acyclic (Simple) and Cyclic paths, properties of Trees, connected graphs, spanning trees, complete and bipartite graphs
- **Graph Representation** - Adjacency lists and adjacency matrix
- **Graph Traversal Algorithms** - Depth First Search, Breadth First Search and their varied and numerous applications including connectivity, cyclicity and bipartiteness checks among many
- **Shortest Path Algorithms** - Dijkstra's Algorithm, Bellman-Ford Algorithm, Floyd-Warshall Algorithm
- **Directed Acyclic Graphs** - Their _Topological Sort_ and algorithms to get them, applications

The problems for this module were quite intriguing. I solved problems from [CSES and Codeforces](https://github.com/harpoonix/Competitive-Coding/blob/main/Graphs/README.md).

## Divide and Conquer Paradigm

During ***Week 4***, delved into various methods for solving recurrences using the divide - conquer paradigm. For practice, I solved these problems on codeforces.

## Dynamic Programming

In ***Week 5***, learnt about programming techniques **Memoisation** and **Tabulation** to solve recurrence problems that would take too many redundant function calls using normal recursion. Again, like the previous module, it was light on theory and quite application-intensive.  

For practice, I solved problems from [CSES](https://github.com/harpoonix/Competitive-Coding/blob/main/Dynamic%20Programming/README.md) for this module.

## Greedy Algorithms

Finally for ***Week 6***, explored various greedy algorithms to tackle some problems.  

Practised on [CodeForces](https://github.com/harpoonix/Competitive-Coding/blob/main/Greedy%20Algorithms/README.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Learning Material

The **Learning Resources** for this project can be found in [this](https://github.com/harpoonix/SoC-22-Competitive-Coding) repository, forked from my mentor's ([Virendra Kabra](https://github.com/virendrakabra14)) [repository](https://github.com/virendrakabra14/SoC-22-Competitive-Coding).

Commit message:

Updated README and added presentation that gives a succinct overview of the project

README.md, after:

# Competitive Coding

## C++ Standard Template Library

In ***Week 1***,  learnt about various data structures in the C++ Standard Template Library and the methods and functions associated with them.  

- Vectors and Strings
- Stack, Deque, Queue and Priority Queue
- Pair, map, set, multimaps
- Operators (bitwise etc.) in C++

As practice for this module, I solved the **Introductory Problems** on [CSES](https://cses.fi/problemset/).

## Sorting and Searching

During ***Week 2***,learnt about various techniques for sorting a data structures and searching for values inside them. Learnt applications of binary search coupled with sorting to solve problems tpyically involving large data sets in optimal time complexity.

As practice for this module, I solved problems from **Sorting and Searching** section on [CSES](https://cses.fi/problemset/) and Codeforces problems.

## Graph Representations and Algorithms

Challenging and fun module for ***Week 3***.  Learnt about  

- **Graph Terminology** - Nodes, Edges, Weights, Trees, Simple Graphs, Acyclic (Simple) and Cyclic paths, properties of Trees, connected graphs, spanning trees, complete and bipartite graphs
- **Graph Representation** - Adjacency lists and adjacency matrix
- **Graph Traversal Algorithms** - Depth First Search, Breadth First Search and their varied and numerous applications including connectivity, cyclicity and bipartiteness checks among many
- **Shortest Path Algorithms** - Dijkstra's Algorithm, Bellman-Ford Algorithm, Floyd-Warshall Algorithm
- **Directed Acyclic Graphs** - Their _Topological Sort_ and algorithms to get them, applications

The problems for this module were quite intriguing. I solved problems from [CSES and Codeforces](./Graphs/README.md).

## Divide and Conquer Paradigm

During ***Week 4***, delved into various methods for solving recurrences using the divide - conquer paradigm. For practice, I solved these problems on codeforces.

## Dynamic Programming

In ***Week 5***, learnt about programming techniques **Memoisation** and **Tabulation** to solve recurrence problems that would take too many redundant function calls using normal recursion. Again, like the previous module, it was light on theory and quite application-intensive.  

For practice, I solved problems from [CSES](Dynamic Programming/README.md) for this module.

## Greedy Algorithms

Finally for ***Week 6***, explored various greedy algorithms to tackle some problems.  

Practised on [CodeForces](Greedy Algorithms/README.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Learning Material

The **Learning Resources** for this project can be found in [this](https://github.com/harpoonix/SoC-22-Competitive-Coding) repository, forked from my mentor's ([Virendra Kabra](https://github.com/virendrakabra14)) [repository](https://github.com/virendrakabra14/SoC-22-Competitive-Coding).

## Presentation

[Here](Seasons_of_Code_Presentation.pdf) is a presentation on the project, giving a succinct overview.
